ServiceAccounts: Add secret scan service docs (#57926)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/setup-grafana/configure-security/secret-scan.md

---
description: Detect and revoke leaked Grafana service account tokens
labels:
  products:
    - cloud
    - enterprise
    - oss
title: Configure Grafana secret scanning and notifications
menuTitle: Configure secret scanning
weight: 1000
---

# Configure Grafana secret scanning and notifications

With Grafana, you can use the GitHub Secret Scanning service to determine if your [service account tokens]({{< relref "../../administration/service-accounts/" >}}) have been leaked on GitHub.

> When GitHub Secret Scanning detects a Grafana secret, its hash is stored in Grafana's secret scanning service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When GitHub Secret Scanning detects a Grafana secret, its hash is stored in Grafana Labs' secret scanning service.
```

---
description: Detect and revoke leaked Grafana service account tokens
labels:
  products:
    - cloud
    - enterprise
    - oss
title: Configure Grafana secret scanning and notifications
menuTitle: Configure secret scanning
weight: 1000
---

# Configure Grafana secret scanning and notifications

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

---
description: Detect and revoke leaked Grafana service account tokens
labels:
  products:
    - cloud
    - enterprise
    - oss
title: Configure Grafana secret scanning and notifications
menuTitle: Configure secret scanning
weight: 1000
---

# Configure Grafana secret scanning and notifications

> > **Note:** Available from Grafana 10.0.

Reviewer 2: We actually don't need to mention this because our docs are versioned. This doc will be released for G10, so no need to mention a specific verison.

> > **Note:** Available from Grafana 10.0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

---
description: Detect and revoke leaked Grafana service account tokens
labels:
  products:
    - cloud
    - enterprise
    - oss

> title: Configure Grafana secret scanning

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Configure Grafana secret scanning and notifications
```

menuTitle: Configure secret scanning
weight: 1000
---

> # Configure Grafana secret scanning

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Configure Grafana secret scanning and notifications
```

Reviewer 2: Added 'and notifications' here to address that this topic contains two tasks. This is just fyi so you understand why I am making this recommendation.

> **Note:** Available from Grafana 10.0.

With Grafana, you can use the GitHub Secret Scanning service to determine if your [service account tokens]({{< relref "../../administration/service-accounts/" >}}) have been leaked on GitHub.

> <div class="clearfix"></div>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

When GitHub Secret Scanning detects a Grafana secret, its hash is stored in Grafana's secret scanning service.

Grafana instances, whether on-premises or on the cloud, can use this service to verify if a token generated by the instance has been made public. This verification is done by comparing the token's hash with the exposed token's hash.

> If the service detects a leaked token, it immediately revokes it, making it useless.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the service detects a leaked token, it immediately revokes it, making it useless, and logs the event. 
```

> **Note:** If the `revoke` option is disabled, the service only sends a notification to the configured webhook URL and logs the event. The token is not automatically revoked.

> By default, when the Grafana secret scanning service detects a leaked token,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> the service automatically revokes the token and logs the event.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> Additionally, the service can be configured to send an outgoing webhook notification to a webhook URL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also configure the service to send an outgoing webhook notification to a webhook URL.
```

The notification includes a JSON payload that contains the following data:

```json
{
  "alert_uid": "c9ce50a1-d66b-45e4-9b5d-175766cfc026",
  "link_to_upstream_details": <URL to token leak>,
  "message": "Token of type grafana_service_account_token with name
sa-the-toucans has been publicly exposed in <URL to token leak>.
Grafana has revoked this token",
  "state": "alerting",
  "title": "SecretScan Alert: Grafana Token leaked"
}
```

> > secret scanning is disabled by default. No outgoing connections are made until you enable it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** Secret scanning is disabled by default. Outgoing connections are made once you enable it.
```

## Before you begin

- Ensure all your API keys have been migrated to service accounts.

>   If you need help with this step, follow [Migrate API keys to Grafana service accounts]({{< relref "../../administration/api-keys/#migrate-api-keys-to-grafana-service-accounts" >}}).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  For more information about service account migration, refer to [Migrate API keys to Grafana service accounts]({{< relref "../../administration/api-keys/#migrate-api-keys-to-grafana-service-accounts" >}}).
```

> - Deployed Grafana 10.0 or later.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: Removing that because the docs are versions so they will already be on G10 or later.

> ## Steps

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Configure secret scanning
```

Reviewer 2: just an fyi, I and changing this back to the name of the task because I realize now that this topic actually contains two tasks, so it is odd to have one called Steps and the other called "Configure outgoing webhook notifications"

1. Open the Grafana configuration file.

2. In the `[secretscan]` section, update the following parameters:

```ini
[secretscan]
# Enable secretscan feature
enabled = true

# Whether to revoke the token if a leak is detected or just send a notification
revoke = true
```

Save the configuration file and restart Grafana.

## Configure outgoing webhook notifications

> 1. Create an oncall integration of the type **Webhook** and setup alerting. Copy the webhook URL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create an oncall integration of the type **Webhook** and set up alerts. Copy the webhook URL.
```

   You can learn how to create an oncall integration in [Webhook integrations for Grafana OnCall](https://grafana.com/docs/oncall/latest/integrations/available-integrations/configure-webhook/).

> 

Reviewer 2: Move the "Copy the webhook URL" so that it is steps 2. 

In Markdown, you can number all steps with `1.` - the steps appear as 1, 2, 3 etc when the docs are published.

> 2. Open the Grafana configuration file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Open the Grafana configuration file.
```

> 3. In the `[secretscan]` section, update the following parameters,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the `[secretscan]` section, update the following parameters,
```

>    replacing the URL with the webhook URL you copied in step 1:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   replacing the URL with the webhook URL you copied in step 2.
```
